# Engineering Readings

1. What’s the one thing I bring to this career (and a potential employer) that nobody else can?
   * My ability to notice patterns and identify the small details has always been a strength. I have leveraged these skills to become the best at what I do in the military and outside the military. Being a quick learner has allowed me to adapt to new environments and absorb new material quickly and led me to becoming an instructor and evaluator above my peers and being highlighted for superior performance. In doing so, I always left every position in better shape than when I inherited the role by creating tools that made the tasks more streamlined and more efficient. All of these skills have a direct translation to software development where quickly identifying patterns, attention to detail, learning new material quickly, and streamlining processes are all imperative to being a successful developer.
2. What are 3 things I’ll start doing to “un-stick” myself whenever I get stuck on tough piece of code, logic, or feature?
   1. Take a deep breath and "zoom out" to see the big picture. This will allow me to revisit the overall objective to ensure my trajectory is aligned with the end goal.
   2. Walk through each step from the beginning and use built-in tests to ensure the expected result is actually being achieved. Also, talking through the steps can allow you to identify errors that may have been made during development.
   3. Very little is still original. Do some research to see how other's have done it in the past. Don't re-invent the wheel! And even if you do come up with a solution, there may be a better way to do it, so research can help make your code more efficient even if you get the same end-result.
